# Individual_self_assessment
## Link to project
[Link to project](https://github.com/Tyfox1206/Patient_Survival_Prediction)

## Self Assessment

Overall, I am very pleased with how I did on this group project. Since I managed the GitHub, I was excited to see how the full development process would go. I was expecting many challenges as this was our teams first time collaborating on a project on GitHub so there were bound to be issues. Through out the project we had many issues with pull requests on GitHub and were able to get them resolved quite quickly and get our project back on track.  Also as part of my portion I created the dashboards for the team. In the beginning I had planned to make a toggle button for the dashboards to view different data. I was able to get this to work however the outcome of this button was not exactly what I was looking for. I spent a very long time working on this aspect of the dashboard but in the end, we decided as a team to scrap the idea and move onto something different, which was probably for the best. Besides the toggle button being a massive challenge, I struggled a little bit with creating some of the charts in Tableau. Going into this I did view Tableau as being a super user-friendly application and while this is still mostly true, I do not hold it at as high of regard as I did before the project started. 

My contributions to the other sections of the project were minor. I would view completed sections and give my input based on how I thought the data was presented and how the machine learning model preformed. I really wanted to give me team the chance shine in their respective sections of the project, so I took more of a review aspect of the project and mainly help with brainstorming and reviewing. I helped Brian develop a very high level of how our database should be created. As well for the machine learning section I help Emilie connect her Jupyter notebook to the pgAdmin database so she could complete her sections. Overall, I think having my teammates take their ideas and run with them and contributing where they got stuck is best practice. It allowed for some creative outcomes in our project, and I could not be happier with it. 

## Team Assessment

This team was amazing. I do not think I could ask for a better group of people to work with. For all communication we used slack for text chat, and we used Zoom for open discussion and collaboration. Before going into this project, I was quite worried about working on a large group project. However, these two have completely shattered every expectation I had for this group and project. I cannot stress enough how well this project went. As a team we were extremely open with each other about our strengths and weaknesses. One key part that really stuck out to me about our group was that Brian and Emilie both wanted to work on sections of project they were not super confident in. Which was really encouraging to me as it should their desire to improve their skills. Despite them working on portions of the project they were not super confident in they knocked it out of the park and did amazing. I think the number one thing that any new cohort team needs to be highly successful on the project is communication. Open communication is the most important in my opinion, telling your teammates your strengths but also and more importantly your weaknesses and where they can assist is key to a good group atmosphere. 

## Summary of Project

Our project was titled Patient Survival Prediction. Our goal was to take a massive dataset and convert it into useable database that we could preform machine learning on to see if we could predict if someone will die while in the ICU. For this we used a Balanced Random Forest Classifier as our machine learning model that was able to get to a 79.3% accuracy score. A different number of estimators were tested to see which one would be best and we ended on using 5000. We found that yes, our model can predict just as well the current systems used within in the hospitals. This was found be completing an ROC curve analysis on our project and our under the curve area was slightly better then what is currently used. 
